README.md, before:

# Poros ![TravisCI](https://travis-ci.org/HellRok/Poros.svg?branch=master)

This is a little gem written for persistence and active-record like querying of
objects with a simple YAML based backend.

The name stands for Plain Old Ruby Object Storage.

## Installation

This gem requires at least Ruby 2.1 because it uses `.to_h` on an Array and
named arguments for initialize.

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```gem 'poros' ```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install poros

## Usage

A basic usage would look like this:

```ruby
class Widget
  include Poros

  poro_attr :name, :order, :active
  poro_index :active

  def initialize(name: '', order: 0, active: false)
    @name = name
    @order = order
    @active = active
  end
end

widget = Widget.new(name: 'Cube', order: 0, active: true)
widget.save

other_widget = Widget.find('uuid')

many_widgets = Widget.where(order: 1, name: /regex/)
```

`#initialize` must use keyword arguments and contain at least all the
attributes defined in `poro_attr`. In the future I may define this function for
you but for right now I'm not sure I want to go that direction.

`poro_attr :blah` will define a getter and setter for `:blah` and also be persisted when you run `#save`

`poro_index :blah` will create indexes on these columns, this will greatly
speed up searching but if your index gets really big the initial load of a
model will take quite a long time.

`self.data_directory` you can re-define this method if you don't want it to
save to the default of `./db/#{self}`. If you do re-define it you _must_
seperate each model into it's own folder or it will have _lots_ of issues.

`.where` acts a bit like ActiveRecord and it takes exact matches, regexs, arrays, or
lambdas in any combination.

```ruby
# Valid examples
Widget.where(name: 'sprocket')
Widget.where(name: /spr.*cket/)
Widget.where(order: -> value { value > 3 })
Widget.where(order: [1, 5, 8], active: true)
Widget.where(order: 1).where(name: 'cog')

# Invalid examples
Widget.where(name: 'sprocket', name: 'cog') # can't check same value twice, use arrays
```

`.find` takes the `#uuid` which is generated by Poros and returns the single record.

A basic usage of relations would be something like:

```ruby
class Author
  include Poros

  poro_attr :name

  has_many :books

  def initialize(name: '')
    @name = name
  end
end

class Book
  include Poros

  poro_attr :title, :author_uuid

  belongs_to :author

  def initialize(title: '', author: nil, author_uuid: nil)
    @title = title
    @author_uuid = author_uuid if author_uuid
    self.author = author if author
  end
end

audrey_niffenegger = Author.new(name: 'Audrey Niffenegger').save
john_steinbeck = Author.new(name: 'John Steinbeck').save
book_1 = Book.new(title: 'The Grapes of Wrath', author_uuid: john_steinbeck.uuid).save
book_2 = Book.new(title: 'The Time Traveler\'s Wife', author_uuid: audrey_niffenegger.uuid).save
book_3 = Book.new(title: 'Of Mice and Men', author_uuid: john_steinbeck.uuid).save
```

And then you'll be able to do things like `author_2.books.where(name: /wrath/)` or `book_2.author`

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bundle install` to install dependencies. Then, run
`rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive
prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To
release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run
`bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push
git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to
[rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at
https://github.com/HellRok/Poros

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT
License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Can now allow certain classes to be loaded

README.md, after:

# Poros ![TravisCI](https://travis-ci.org/HellRok/Poros.svg?branch=master)

This is a little gem written for persistence and active-record like querying of
objects with a simple YAML based backend.

The name stands for Plain Old Ruby Object Storage.

## Installation

This gem requires at least Ruby 2.1 because it uses `.to_h` on an Array and
named arguments for initialize.

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```gem 'poros' ```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install poros

## Usage

A basic usage would look like this:

```ruby
class Widget
  include Poros

  poro_attr :name, :order, :active
  poro_index :active

  def initialize(name: '', order: 0, active: false)
    @name = name
    @order = order
    @active = active
  end
end

widget = Widget.new(name: 'Cube', order: 0, active: true)
widget.save

other_widget = Widget.find('uuid')

many_widgets = Widget.where(order: 1, name: /regex/)
```

If you want to use an attribute that's actually a class like `Date` you will
need to specifically allow it. This is a safety feature of YAML and will help
protect your code base from malicious users.

```ruby

Poros::Config.configure do |config|
  config[:permitted_classes] << Date
end

class Person
  include Poros

  poro_attr :name, :birthday

  def initialize(name: '', birthday: Date.today)
    @name = name
    @birthday = birthday
  end
end
```

`#initialize` must use keyword arguments and contain at least all the
attributes defined in `poro_attr`. In the future I may define this function for
you but for right now I'm not sure I want to go that direction.

`poro_attr :blah` will define a getter and setter for `:blah` and also be persisted when you run `#save`

`poro_index :blah` will create indexes on these columns, this will greatly
speed up searching but if your index gets really big the initial load of a
model will take quite a long time.

`self.data_directory` you can redefine this method if you don't want it to
save to the default of `./db/#{self}`. If you do redefine it you _must_
seperate each model into its own folder or it will have _lots_ of issues.

`.where` acts a bit like ActiveRecord and it takes exact matches, regexs, arrays, or
lambdas in any combination.

```ruby
# Valid examples
Widget.where(name: 'sprocket')
Widget.where(name: /spr.*cket/)
Widget.where(order: -> value { value > 3 })
Widget.where(order: [1, 5, 8], active: true)
Widget.where(order: 1).where(name: 'cog')

# Invalid examples
Widget.where(name: 'sprocket', name: 'cog') # can't check same value twice, use arrays
```

`.find` takes the `#uuid` which is generated by Poros and returns the single record.

A basic usage of relations would be something like:

```ruby
class Author
  include Poros

  poro_attr :name

  has_many :books

  def initialize(name: '')
    @name = name
  end
end

class Book
  include Poros

  poro_attr :title, :author_uuid

  belongs_to :author

  def initialize(title: '', author: nil, author_uuid: nil)
    @title = title
    @author_uuid = author_uuid if author_uuid
    self.author = author if author
  end
end

audrey_niffenegger = Author.new(name: 'Audrey Niffenegger').save
john_steinbeck = Author.new(name: 'John Steinbeck').save
book_1 = Book.new(title: 'The Grapes of Wrath', author_uuid: john_steinbeck.uuid).save
book_2 = Book.new(title: 'The Time Traveler\'s Wife', author_uuid: audrey_niffenegger.uuid).save
book_3 = Book.new(title: 'Of Mice and Men', author_uuid: john_steinbeck.uuid).save
```

And then you'll be able to do things like `author_2.books.where(name: /wrath/)` or `book_2.author`

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bundle install` to install dependencies. Then, run
`rake test` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive
prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To
release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run
`bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push
git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to
[rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at
https://github.com/HellRok/Poros

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT
License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
